

+ `Home`_
+ `About Coq`_
+ `Get Coq`_
+ `Documentation`_
+ `Community`_

` `_ `The Coq Proof Assistant`_


Chapter 26 Nsatz: tactics for proving equalities in integral domains
====================================================================


+ `26.1 Using the basic tactic nsatz`_
+ `26.2 More about nsatz`_


Loïc Pottier



The tactic nsatz proves goals of the form
∀ X 1 ,…,X n ∈ A, P 1 (X 1 ,…,X n ) = Q 1 (X 1 ,…,X n ) , … , P s (X 1
,…,X n ) =Q s (X 1 ,…,X n ) ⊢ P(X 1 ,…,X n ) = Q(X 1 ,…,X n )
where P,Q, P 1 ,Q 1 ,…,P s ,Q s are polynomials and A is an integral
domain, i.e. a commutative ring with no zero divisor. For example, A
can be ℝ, ℤ, of ℚ. Note that the equality = used in these goals can be
any setoid equality (see `27.2.2`_) , not only Leibnitz equality.

It also proves formulas
∀ X 1 ,…,X n ∈ A, P 1 (X 1 ,…,X n ) = Q 1 (X 1 ,…,X n ) ∧ … ∧ P s (X 1
,…,X n ) =Q s (X 1 ,…,X n ) → P(X 1 ,…,X n ) = Q(X 1 ,…,X n )
doing automatic introductions.


26.1 Using the basic tactic nsatz
---------------------------------



Load theNsatz module: Require Import Nsatz.
and use the tactic nsatz.


26.2 More about nsatz
---------------------

Hilbert’s Nullstellensatz theorem shows how to reduce proofs of
equalities on polynomials on a commutative ring A with no zero divisor
to algebraic computations: it is easy to see that if a polynomialP in
A[X 1 ,…,X n ] verifies c P r = ∑ i=1 s S i P i , with c ∈ A, c ≠ 0, r
a positive integer, and the S i s inA[X 1 ,…,X n ], then P is zero
whenever polynomials P 1 ,...,P s are zero (the converse is also true
when A is an algebraic closed field: the method is complete).

So, proving our initial problem can reduce into finding S 1 ,…,S s , c
and r such that c (P−Q) r = ∑ i S i (P i −Q i ), which will be proved
by the tactic ring.

This is achieved by the computation of a Groebner basis of the ideal
generated by P 1 −Q 1 ,...,P s −Q s , with an adapted version of the
Buchberger algorithm.

This computation is done after a step of *reification*, which is
performed using *Type Classes* (see `20`_) .

The Nsatz module defines the tacticnsatz, which can be used without
arguments:

nsatz
or with the syntax:

nsatz with radicalmax:= *number*%N strategy:= *number*%Z parameters:=
*list of variables* variables:= *list of variables*
where:


+ radicalmax is a bound when for searching r s.t.c (P−Q) r = ∑ i=1..s
  S i (P i − Q i )
+ strategy gives the order on variables X 1 ,...X n and the strategy
  used in Buchberger algorithm (see [`72`_] for details):

    + strategy = 0: reverse lexicographic order and newest s-polynomial.
    + strategy = 1: reverse lexicographic order and sugar strategy.
    + strategy = 2: pure lexicographic order and newest s-polynomial.
    + strategy = 3: pure lexicographic order and sugar strategy.

+ parameters is the list of variablesX i 1 ,…,X i k among X 1 ,...,X n
  which are considered as parameters: computation will be performed with
  rational fractions in these variables, i.e. polynomials are considered
  with coefficients inR(X i 1 ,…,X i k ). In this case, the coefficient
  c can be a non constant polynomial in X i 1 ,…,X i k , and the tactic
  produces a goal which states that c is not zero.
+ variables is the list of the variables in the decreasing order in
  which they will be used in Buchberger algorithm. If variables = (@nil
  R), then lvar is replaced by all the variables which are not in
  parameters.


See file Nsatz.v for many examples, specially in geometry.



Navigation
----------


+ `Cover`_
+ `Table of contents`_
+ Index

    + `General`_
    + `Commands`_
    + `Options`_
    + `Tactics`_
    + `Errors`_




+ `webmaster`_
+ `xhtml valid`_
+ `CSS valid`_


.. _Commands: :///home/steck/command-index.html
.. _Get Coq: :///download
.. _Options: :///home/steck/option-index.html
.. _Tactics: :///home/steck/tactic-index.html
.. _About Coq: :///about-coq
.. _Errors: :///home/steck/error-index.html
.. _The Coq Proof Assistant: :///
.. _nsatz: :///home/steck/nsatz.html#sec848
.. _72: :///home/steck/biblio.html#sugar
.. _Cover: :///home/steck/index.html
.. _General: :///home/steck/general-index.html
.. _CSS valid: http://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/
.. _Documentation: :///documentation
.. _xhtml valid: http://validator.w3.org/
.. _27.2.2: :///home/steck/setoid.html#setoidtactics
.. _nsatz: :///home/steck/nsatz.html#sec849
.. _Community: :///community
.. _webmaster: mailto:coq-www_@_inria.fr
.. _Table of contents: :///home/steck/toc.html
.. _20: :///home/steck/type-classes.html#typeclasses


